Let's talk a little Cartesian coordinates in 3D space. This is an overview of section 10.1 from our book, Cartesian coordinates in 3D space, or a way of describing the location of a point in 3D space with respect to some origin. The origin is usually denoted 0 comma 0, comma 0. It's very similar to the way you describe points in 2D space, except we have an extra coordinate. The 0.2 comma three comma five is two units in the X direction, three units in the Y, and five units in the z-direction. And we can have lots of points and we can have equations that describe many points. We can also talk about distance in 3D space. If you have two points, the distance between them is given by this formula, which is the square root of the sum of the squares of the differences of the respective coordinates. It's very similar to the distance formula in two dimensions. In fact, it's just another application of the Pythagorean theorem. Here I show that we have two points, 1-2-3, 4-5-6. How can you, how do you find the distance? You put them into the formula and calculate like this. And a natural object in three-dimensional space as a sphere, which is the set of points that are all the same distance from some point called a center. If you have the center being abc and a radius being r, then you can describe the distance from the point XYZ to the point a BC equal to r. >> That's the distance formula. >> And if you square both sides, you get exactly this standard equation of the sphere. Oftentimes, you're given an equation that doesn't look exactly like a sphere per se. But if you group the x, y, and z terms together, like we did in this example, you can see that you can complete the square and then gather the x, y, and z squared's. And then it is just a sphere. And this sphere is centered at negative one comma two, comma three, With radius four. We can also have planes in three-dimensional space. Here we have three coordinate planes, and these are the most common. The XY plane, which is the set of points with a Z value of 0. The YZ plane, which is the set of points with an x value of 0. And the X Z plane, which is a set of points. What the y value of 0. These planes help us describe what's happening in these three cross-sections. So no matter what kind of graph we have, no matter what kind of function that we're given, we often like to simplify the situation by looking at what's happening in one of these three coordinate planes. Because then the three-dimensional graph just becomes a two-dimensional graph. And we can use all the results that we know from one-dimensional calculus. So the equations for these planes are z equals to 0, x equals to 0, and y equals to 0 respectively. A cylinder in three-dimensional space is a bit more general than what we usually think of as a cylinder. A cylinder we usually think of as sort of like a tin can, like we see here in the picture on the bottom left. In calculus, a cylinder is A set of parallel lines grouped together. >> Essentially, these are called the rulings. And we can see that the picture on the bottom right, If you have a curve like a parabola there, and then you have all of the lines that go through that parabola. >> And that surface that's formed by all those lines is a cylinder. So it's the cylinder is the surface that you get by connecting together all of these parallel lines. We also describe the many services in three-dimensional space by revolving other surfaces that we already know. So in this case, we have y equals the sine of z. So if you kind of tilt your head and you can see that our z as the independent variable, we just have a normal sine function there from 0 to pi. And in the y z plane, that is what it looks like. Y equals the sine of z. And you can rotate that around the z-axis. And then you get nice, you get this nice TOP looking surface. Some important kinds of surfaces are quadratic surfaces. A quadric services are an extension of the idea of conic sections from precalculus and calculus. And if you see the equation here for a quadratic surface, it's very similar to the general equation of a conic section when we sketch quadratic surfaces, we have modern software that helps us quite a bit these days, but oftentimes, a simple sketch on your own can help you solve a seemingly intractable problem in seconds. Just by helping you simplify the situation, by understanding what kind of object we're dealing with. >> The typical way that you sketch a quarter x surface or most surfaces is just to sketch some cross sections. >> So in a surface like this, if this is a hyperbola or hyperboloid, and the equation of a hyperboloid here is given. And if you want to graphic yourself, what you could do is just let x be 0, let's say. And if you put x equals to 0 in, what you're left with is just a y squared over b squared minus z squared over c squared equal one, which is a hyperbola. So when x is equal to 0, remember that's the y z plane. So by setting x equal to 0, you're looking at the curve in the YZ plane of that part of the surface. So this is taking cross sections of the surface in a systematic way. And if the years, if your graph is centered at the origin, which this one is, the typical cross sections to take would be the coordinate axes, x equal to 0, y equal to 0, and z equal to 0
