Welcome to a short video on an introduction to vectors. There's a section 10.2 in our book. >> Factors can be thought about simply as arrows and calculus. >> We call a vector a directed line segment. So that is part of a line between two points and it has a direction, meaning we want to think of moving from a certain initial point to the terminal point. Once we have the initial point and a terminal point, the vector has a length or magnitude, and the direction is just the direction that it's pointing. Some notation that we use for vectors is this. So if we know the two points that the vector goes from, then we can write the vector has the first, then the second with an arrow over the top. It matters which order the points appear, right? That was the vector PQ is different than the vector QP. All vectors that point in the same direction and have the same length are actually the same. So we can think of vectors as arrows that we simply just move around wherever we want to sense. It doesn't really matter where the vector is pointing. Usually we drop the points and we just write the vector as v or w or u or something like that with a little arrow over the top. The length or magnitude of a vector is written with this double absolute value notation. In math, we usually write vectors as components with these angle brackets. So in R2, or in two-dimensional space, a vector is written as angle bracket a comma b, another angle bracket. >> And that's in the specific case where the vector goes from 0 comma 0 to the point a comma b. >> We also use this other notation for vectors that you'll see is very common as either a row vector or a column vector. That is when we're using vectors in the context of matrices usually. So how do we find the component form of vector? Well, if we're given two points from p to q, then we can find the vector by subtracting the initial points from the terminal points. >> So in the picture that you see here, we have a vector that goes from a to B. >> And if you subtract the initial points from a, that essentially translates that vector down to the origin. So the vector that goes from a, B, C to XYZ is the same as the vector that goes from 0002, x minus a, y minus b, z minus c. It's best to think about factors not as having coordinates, but each number that's separated by commas here just tells you the value in the x, y, and z directions respectively. So here's an example. Find the component form of the vector whose initial point is negative three, negative two, negative one, and whose terminal point is negative one to four. So if we graph the vector here in three-dimensional space, we can just write the terminal points negative one to four, and then subtract the initial points. And that gives a simple calculation. And it turns out to be the vector 245 A great thing about vectors is we can scale them, meaning that we can add them together geometrically, that Beans stringing the arrows are chaining them together and to seeing where they add up. So we can see, ie, the vector u plus the vector v ends up over here. And we call that total vector u plus v. And that turns out to be the same as v plus u. This is actually a property of vectors. >> Addition takes place by just adding up each component. >> So that's very convenient. So if you have the vector with three components, U1, U2, U3, and V1, V2, V3. You just add them together by adding each component and then scaling a vector is very similar. When you multiply a vector times a number, that number just gets multiplied on each part. Not the geometric interpretation of scaling. So if you multiply a vector times two, that actually doubles the length. >> And that means the length of each component is twice the size. >> Here's some important properties of vectors. Just keep in mind, when you add vectors together, you can add them in any order. They have the associative property, just like real numbers do. There's a special vector, sort of the arrow, the invisible arrow that's size 0. And you can add it to any vector and you just get the vector back. When you scale vectors, you have the nice property where you can just multiply times, multiply first or scale one at a time. >> You can distribute scalars across two vectors. >> You can add two scalars together in a distributed across the vector. As we would normally think, the scalar 0 times any vector is the 0 vector. And the magnitude of a vector behaves this way. When you scale it, you can just pull out the absolute value of the scalar and you'll get the same thing. >> And then the last property is pretty important. >> It says that the only vector that has length 0 is the 0 vector itself. A special kind of vector is the unit vector. Unit vector is a vector of length one. Given any vector v, you can always find the unit vector by just multiplying times one over the length. This just takes the length of the vector and scales it to have length one. Once you've scaled vectors have length one, then you can ask if they're pointing in the same direction. So any two vectors are parallel, if they're pointing in the same direction. >> And you can check if they're parallel, is if you scale them to length one, then say if they are the same, if they have the same unit vector or the opposite. >> So parallel is pointing in the same direction or opposite directions. An important thing about unit vectors in two dimensions is every unit vector is identified with a specific point on the unit circle. So that's a good way to think about the direction of vectors in two dimensional space is at every point on the unit circle is actually the direction of a vector. So that means in component form, we can write unit vectors just like we would in Trig as the cosine of the angle comma the sine of the angle in threes, in three-dimensions, the situation's a little more complicated. You have the angle with the positive x axis and then you have the angle with the positive z axis. So you can write the component form of a unit vector in three dimensions like this. And every, every direction in three-dimensional space, every unit vectors associated with a point on the unit sphere. >> And later on in the class we'll, we'll call these coordinates spherical coordinates. >> There's a couple important vectors to be aware of. I and j are the unit normal vectors are standard nor stand at unit vectors in two dimensional space. And they're just the vectors that 0.1 in the x-direction for i, in one in the y-direction for j, and the same in R3. >> We have the vectors i, j, and k. >> These are really popular vectors and they're used to describe any kind of direction in the, the normal standard unit directions, one in the x direction, one in the y direction, and one in the z direction. So we can always write factors in these two different ways. >> We have the component form, which we just learned as three comma four comma five. >> So lets just the vector that points three in the x direction and four in the y direction, and five in the z direction. >> But we can pull out those scalars. >> And what we have kind of behind the scenes are these standard unit vectors. That means that we can write the vector 345 is just 3i plus 4j plus 5K.
